docs/TESTING.md, before:

# Enterprise Testing Strategy

This document outlines the comprehensive testing strategy implemented for the AWS Serverless User Management API, designed for enterprise-grade CI/CD pipelines.

## 🎯 Testing Philosophy

Our testing approach follows the **Test Pyramid** principle with enterprise-grade tooling:

```
           🔺 E2E/Behavioral Tests (Cucumber)
          🔺🔺 Integration Tests (Jest + LocalStack)
         🔺🔺🔺 Contract Tests (Pact)
        🔺🔺🔺🔺 Unit Tests (Jest)
```

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Core Testing Framework
- **Jest**: Primary testing framework with TypeScript support
- **Supertest**: HTTP assertion library for API testing
- **Axios**: HTTP client for API interactions

### Specialized Testing Tools
- **Pact**: Consumer-driven contract testing
- **Cucumber**: Behavioral-driven development (BDD)
- **LocalStack**: Local AWS services emulation
- **nock**: HTTP request mocking for unit tests

### Quality Assurance
- **Coverage**: Code coverage reporting with thresholds
- **ESLint**: Code quality and style enforcement
- **TypeScript**: Compile-time type checking

## 📋 Test Types

### 1. Unit Tests (`test/unit/`)
**Purpose**: Test individual functions and components in isolation

**Technology**: Jest + TypeScript
**Coverage**: 80% minimum threshold
**Execution**: Fast (< 5 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:unit
```

**Features**:
- Isolated testing with mocked dependencies
- Fast feedback loop
- High code coverage requirements
- Mock external services

### 2. Integration Tests (`test/integration/`)
**Purpose**: Test API endpoints with real infrastructure

**Technology**: Jest + Supertest + LocalStack
**Environment**: LocalStack (AWS services emulation)
**Execution**: Medium (30-60 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:integration
```

**Features**:
- Real API Gateway + Lambda + DynamoDB interactions
- Complete request/response cycle testing
- Error handling validation
- Performance benchmarking

### 3. Contract Tests (`test/contract/`)
**Purpose**: Ensure API contracts between consumers and providers

**Technology**: Pact Framework
**Scope**: API contract validation
**Execution**: Fast (< 10 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:contract
```

**Features**:
- Consumer-driven contract testing
- API schema validation
- Breaking change detection
- Contract publishing to Pact Broker

### 4. Behavioral Tests (`test/behavioral/`)
**Purpose**: Validate business requirements in natural language

**Technology**: Cucumber (Gherkin)
**Scope**: End-to-end user scenarios
**Execution**: Medium (30-45 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:behavioral
```

**Features**:
- Business-readable test scenarios
- Stakeholder collaboration
- Acceptance criteria validation
- Real-world usage patterns

## 🚀 Execution Strategies

### Local Development
```bash
# Run all tests
npm run test:enterprise

# Run specific test types
npm run test:enterprise:unit
npm run test:enterprise:integration
npm run test:enterprise:contract
npm run test:enterprise:behavioral

# Watch mode for development
npm run test:watch
```

### CI/CD Pipeline
```bash
# Optimized for CI environment
npm run test:enterprise:ci

# Individual stages
npm run test:unit           # Fast feedback
npm run test:contract       # Contract validation
npm run test:integration    # Full integration
npm run test:behavioral     # Acceptance testing
```

## 📊 Coverage and Quality Gates

### Coverage Thresholds
```javascript
coverageThresholds: {
  global: {
    branches: 80,
    functions: 80,
    lines: 80,
    statements: 80
  }
}
```

### Quality Gates
- ✅ All unit tests pass
- ✅ Integration tests pass with LocalStack
- ✅ Contract tests validate API schemas
- ✅ Behavioral tests confirm business requirements
- ✅ Code coverage meets 80% threshold
- ✅ No TypeScript compilation errors
- ✅ No ESLint violations

## 🔧 Configuration

### Jest Configuration
- **Base**: `jest.config.js` - Main configuration
- **Integration**: `jest.integration.config.js` - Extended timeout and setup
- **Contract**: `jest.contract.config.js` - Pact-specific configuration

### Environment Setup
```bash
# Test environment variables
NODE_ENV=test
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=test
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=test
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-east-1
```

## 📈 Performance Testing

### Performance Criteria
- **Response Time**: < 5 seconds per request
- **Concurrent Users**: Handle 3+ simultaneous requests
- **Memory Usage**: Monitor Lambda memory consumption
- **Error Rate**: < 1% error rate under normal load

### Performance Tests
```typescript
// Example performance validation
it('should respond within acceptable time limits', async () => {
  const startTime = Date.now();
  const response = await apiClient.createUser(userData);
  const responseTime = Date.now() - startTime;
  
  expect(response.status).toBe(201);
  expect(responseTime).toBeLessThan(5000); // 5 second SLA
});
```

## 🔍 Test Data Management

### Test Data Strategy
- **Isolated**: Each test creates its own data
- **Cleanup**: Automatic cleanup after test completion
- **Deterministic**: Predictable test data for consistency

### Data Factories
```typescript
export function createTestUser(overrides = {}) {
  return {
    id: `test-user-${Date.now()}`,
    name: `Test User ${Date.now()}`,
    ...overrides,
  };
}
```

## 🚦 CI/CD Integration

### GitHub Actions Workflow
- **Parallel Execution**: Run tests in parallel for faster feedback
- **Artifact Collection**: Store test reports and coverage
- **Quality Gates**: Block deployment on test failures

### Pipeline Stages
1. **Validation**: OpenAPI spec validation
2. **Unit Tests**: Fast isolated testing
3. **Contract Tests**: API contract validation
4. **Integration Tests**: Full stack testing with LocalStack
5. **Coverage**: Generate and publish coverage reports

## 📋 Best Practices

### Test Organization
```
test/
├── setup/              # Test configuration and setup
├── utils/              # Shared test utilities
├── unit/               # Unit tests
├── integration/        # Integration tests
├── contract/           # Pact contract tests
├── behavioral/         # Cucumber features and steps
└── reports/            # Generated test reports
```

### Naming Conventions
- **Files**: `*.test.ts` or `*.spec.ts`
- **Describe blocks**: Feature or component names
- **Test cases**: "should [expected behavior] when [condition]"

### Error Handling
- Test both success and failure scenarios
- Validate error response formats
- Ensure proper HTTP status codes

### Async Testing
- Use async/await consistently
- Set appropriate timeouts
- Handle promise rejections properly

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### LocalStack Connection
```bash
# Check LocalStack status
curl http://localhost:4566/_localstack/health

# Restart LocalStack
npm run deploy:localstack
```

#### Test Timeouts
- Increase timeout in Jest configuration
- Check LocalStack service readiness
- Verify network connectivity

#### Coverage Issues
- Ensure all source files are included
- Check exclusion patterns
- Verify test file patterns

## 📚 Resources

### Documentation
- [Jest Documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started)
- [Pact Documentation](https://docs.pact.io/)
- [Cucumber.js Documentation](https://cucumber.io/docs/cucumber/)
- [LocalStack Documentation](https://docs.localstack.cloud/)

### Tools
- **Test Reports**: `test/reports/`
- **Coverage Reports**: `coverage/index.html`
- **Pact Contracts**: `pacts/`

## 🎉 Benefits

### Developer Experience
- **Fast Feedback**: Quick test execution
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: All layers tested
- **Easy Debugging**: Detailed error reporting
- **Local Development**: Full testing locally

### Enterprise Readiness
- **CI/CD Integration**: GitHub Actions workflow
- **Quality Gates**: Automated quality checks
- **Contract Testing**: Breaking change detection
- **Behavioral Testing**: Business requirement validation

### Maintainability
- **Type Safety**: TypeScript throughout
- **Documentation**: Living documentation with Cucumber
- **Modularity**: Reusable test utilities
- **Scalability**: Framework supports growth

Commit message:

feat: Documentation updates and project cleanup
🎯 Major Updates:
- ✅ Fixed API_USAGE.md authentication documentation to reflect JWT requirements in production
- ✅ Updated scripts/README.md directory structure to match current organization
- ✅ Completed comprehensive empty file cleanup and consolidation

🔐 Authentication Documentation Fixes:
- Updated API_USAGE.md to clarify JWT Bearer token requirements in production AWS
- Added separate examples for production (with auth) vs LocalStack (no auth)
- Enhanced error handling documentation with 401/403 authentication errors
- Corrected endpoint examples to show proper Authorization headers

📁 Scripts Organization:
- Updated scripts/README.md directory tree to reflect current file structure
- Fixed paths for common-logging.sh (moved to utils/ directory)
- Added documentation for new testing scripts (security, enterprise, integration-safe)
- Updated validation script examples with correct paths

🧹 Project Cleanup:
- Removed 10 empty/unused files including duplicate infrastructure and test files
- Consolidated LocalStack configuration (removed cdk.local.json and bin/local-app.ts)
- Updated documentation references to removed files
- Cleaned build artifacts and maintained working functionality

📋 Infrastructure Improvements:
- Unified CDK app.ts now handles both AWS and LocalStack automatically
- Removed redundant LocalStack-specific configuration files
- Updated cross-references in documentation to current file structure
- Maintained backward compatibility for all deployment scripts

🚀 Results:
- Documentation accuracy: ✅ API usage now correctly documents JWT authentication
- Project organization: ✅ Cleaner structure with proper file hierarchy
- Development workflow: ✅ All deployment and testing functionality preserved
- Authentication clarity: ✅ Clear distinction between production and development requirements

docs/TESTING.md, after:

# Enterprise Testing Strategy

**Comprehensive testing framework for enterprise-grade applications**

> 🚀 **Need to run tests quickly? See [TESTING_QUICK_START.md](./TESTING_QUICK_START.md) for immediate instructions**

This document outlines the comprehensive testing strategy implemented for the AWS Serverless User Management API, designed for enterprise-grade CI/CD pipelines.

## 🎯 Testing Philosophy

Our testing approach follows the **Test Pyramid** principle with enterprise-grade tooling:

```
           🔺 E2E/Behavioral Tests (Cucumber)
          🔺🔺 Integration Tests (Jest + LocalStack)
         🔺🔺🔺 Contract Tests (Pact)
        🔺🔺🔺🔺 Unit Tests (Jest)
```

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Core Testing Framework
- **Jest**: Primary testing framework with TypeScript support
- **Supertest**: HTTP assertion library for API testing
- **Axios**: HTTP client for API interactions

### Specialized Testing Tools
- **Pact**: Consumer-driven contract testing
- **Cucumber**: Behavioral-driven development (BDD)
- **LocalStack**: Local AWS services emulation
- **nock**: HTTP request mocking for unit tests

### Quality Assurance
- **Coverage**: Code coverage reporting with thresholds
- **ESLint**: Code quality and style enforcement
- **TypeScript**: Compile-time type checking

## 📋 Test Types

### 1. Unit Tests (`test/unit/`)
**Purpose**: Test individual functions and components in isolation

**Technology**: Jest + TypeScript
**Coverage**: 80% minimum threshold
**Execution**: Fast (< 5 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:unit
```

**Features**:
- Isolated testing with mocked dependencies
- Fast feedback loop
- High code coverage requirements
- Mock external services

### 2. Integration Tests (`test/integration/`)
**Purpose**: Test API endpoints with real infrastructure

**Technology**: Jest + Supertest + LocalStack
**Environment**: LocalStack (AWS services emulation)
**Execution**: Medium (30-60 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:integration
```

**Features**:
- Real API Gateway + Lambda + DynamoDB interactions
- Complete request/response cycle testing
- Error handling validation
- Performance benchmarking

### 3. Contract Tests (`test/contract/`)
**Purpose**: Ensure API contracts between consumers and providers

**Technology**: Pact Framework
**Scope**: API contract validation
**Execution**: Fast (< 10 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:contract
```

**Features**:
- Consumer-driven contract testing
- API schema validation
- Breaking change detection
- Contract publishing to Pact Broker

### 4. Behavioral Tests (`test/behavioral/`)
**Purpose**: Validate business requirements in natural language

**Technology**: Cucumber (Gherkin)
**Scope**: End-to-end user scenarios
**Execution**: Medium (30-45 seconds)

```bash
npm run test:behavioral
```

**Features**:
- Business-readable test scenarios
- Stakeholder collaboration
- Acceptance criteria validation
- Real-world usage patterns

## 🚀 Execution Strategies

### Local Development
```bash
# Run all tests
npm run test:enterprise

# Run specific test types
npm run test:enterprise:unit
npm run test:enterprise:integration
npm run test:enterprise:contract
npm run test:enterprise:behavioral

# Watch mode for development
npm run test:watch
```

### CI/CD Pipeline
```bash
# Optimized for CI environment
npm run test:enterprise:ci

# Individual stages
npm run test:unit           # Fast feedback
npm run test:contract       # Contract validation
npm run test:integration    # Full integration
npm run test:behavioral     # Acceptance testing
```

## 📊 Coverage and Quality Gates

### Coverage Thresholds
```javascript
coverageThresholds: {
  global: {
    branches: 80,
    functions: 80,
    lines: 80,
    statements: 80
  }
}
```

### Quality Gates
- ✅ All unit tests pass
- ✅ Integration tests pass with LocalStack
- ✅ Contract tests validate API schemas
- ✅ Behavioral tests confirm business requirements
- ✅ Code coverage meets 80% threshold
- ✅ No TypeScript compilation errors
- ✅ No ESLint violations

## 🔧 Configuration

### Jest Configuration
- **Base**: `jest.config.js` - Main configuration
- **Integration**: `jest.integration.config.js` - Extended timeout and setup
- **Contract**: `jest.contract.config.js` - Pact-specific configuration

### Environment Setup
```bash
# Test environment variables
NODE_ENV=test
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=test
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=test
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-east-1
```

## 📈 Performance Testing

### Performance Criteria
- **Response Time**: < 5 seconds per request
- **Concurrent Users**: Handle 3+ simultaneous requests
- **Memory Usage**: Monitor Lambda memory consumption
- **Error Rate**: < 1% error rate under normal load

### Performance Tests
```typescript
// Example performance validation
it('should respond within acceptable time limits', async () => {
  const startTime = Date.now();
  const response = await apiClient.createUser(userData);
  const responseTime = Date.now() - startTime;
  
  expect(response.status).toBe(201);
  expect(responseTime).toBeLessThan(5000); // 5 second SLA
});
```

## 🔍 Test Data Management

### Test Data Strategy
- **Isolated**: Each test creates its own data
- **Cleanup**: Automatic cleanup after test completion
- **Deterministic**: Predictable test data for consistency

### Data Factories
```typescript
export function createTestUser(overrides = {}) {
  return {
    id: `test-user-${Date.now()}`,
    name: `Test User ${Date.now()}`,
    ...overrides,
  };
}
```

## 🚦 CI/CD Integration

### GitHub Actions Workflow
- **Parallel Execution**: Run tests in parallel for faster feedback
- **Artifact Collection**: Store test reports and coverage
- **Quality Gates**: Block deployment on test failures

### Pipeline Stages
1. **Validation**: OpenAPI spec validation
2. **Unit Tests**: Fast isolated testing
3. **Contract Tests**: API contract validation
4. **Integration Tests**: Full stack testing with LocalStack
5. **Coverage**: Generate and publish coverage reports

## 📋 Best Practices

### Test Organization
```
test/
├── setup/              # Test configuration and setup
├── utils/              # Shared test utilities
├── unit/               # Unit tests
├── integration/        # Integration tests
├── contract/           # Pact contract tests
├── behavioral/         # Cucumber features and steps
└── reports/            # Generated test reports
```

### Naming Conventions
- **Files**: `*.test.ts` or `*.spec.ts`
- **Describe blocks**: Feature or component names
- **Test cases**: "should [expected behavior] when [condition]"

### Error Handling
- Test both success and failure scenarios
- Validate error response formats
- Ensure proper HTTP status codes

### Async Testing
- Use async/await consistently
- Set appropriate timeouts
- Handle promise rejections properly

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### LocalStack Connection
```bash
# Check LocalStack status
curl http://localhost:4566/_localstack/health

# Restart LocalStack
npm run deploy:localstack
```

#### Test Timeouts
- Increase timeout in Jest configuration
- Check LocalStack service readiness
- Verify network connectivity

#### Coverage Issues
- Ensure all source files are included
- Check exclusion patterns
- Verify test file patterns

## 📚 Resources

### Documentation
- [Jest Documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started)
- [Pact Documentation](https://docs.pact.io/)
- [Cucumber.js Documentation](https://cucumber.io/docs/cucumber/)
- [LocalStack Documentation](https://docs.localstack.cloud/)

### Tools
- **Test Reports**: `test/reports/`
- **Coverage Reports**: `coverage/index.html`
- **Pact Contracts**: `pacts/`

## 🎉 Benefits

### Developer Experience
- **Fast Feedback**: Quick test execution
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: All layers tested
- **Easy Debugging**: Detailed error reporting
- **Local Development**: Full testing locally

### Enterprise Readiness
- **CI/CD Integration**: GitHub Actions workflow
- **Quality Gates**: Automated quality checks
- **Contract Testing**: Breaking change detection
- **Behavioral Testing**: Business requirement validation

### Maintainability
- **Type Safety**: TypeScript throughout
- **Documentation**: Living documentation with Cucumber
- **Modularity**: Reusable test utilities
- **Scalability**: Framework supports growth
